README.md, before:

# On This Day

[![License: MIT][mit]](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![code style: prettier][prettier]](https://github.com/prettier/prettier)

## About

_On This Day_ is an app that serves and displays events, births and deaths that occurred during the
queried day of history, scraped from [Wikipedia](https://www.wikipedia.org/).

The app was built as a GraphQL monorepo via yarn workspaces using the following technologies:

1. [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
2. [Apollo Server](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/)
3. [Apollo Client](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/)
4. [React](https://facebook.github.io/react/)

Custom packages included in the monorepo are:

- `server`: Backend GraphQL logic
- `client`: Frontend GraphQL + React app
- `scraper`: Scraps seed data from Wikipedia
- `shared`: Shared code for all packages, such as validations
- `eslint-config`: Base eslint config for the whole project

## Queries

#### yearDate

Returns an array of historical episodes, filtered by day and month.

- **args:**

  - input:
    - month (Int!): An integer between 1 and 12.
    - day (Int!): An integer between 1 and 31.

- **Example usage:**

  ```graphql
  {
    yearDate(input: { day: 13, month: 10 }) {
      day
      month
      description
      events {
        id
        year
        description
        keywords {
          title
          href
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

- **Example response:**

  ```json
  {
    "data": {
      "yearDate": {
        "day": 13,
        "month": 10,
        "description": "October 13 is the 286th day of the year (287th in leap years) in the Gregorian calendar. 79 days remain until the end of the year.",
        "events": [
          {
            "id": "5e8e7aa06ae7679b783cff22",
            "year": 54,
            "description": "Roman emperor Claudius dies from poisoning under mysterious circumstances.",
            "keywords": [
              {
                "title": "AD 54",
                "href": "/wiki/AD_54",
              },
              {
                "title": "Claudius",
                "href": "/wiki/Claudius",
              },
            ],
          },
          {
            "id": "5e8e7aa06ae7679b783cff25",
            "year": 409,
            "description": "Vandals and Alans cross the Pyrenees and appear in Hispania.",
            "keywords": [
              {
                "title": "409",
                "href": "/wiki/409",
              },
              {
                "title": "Vandals",
                "href": "/wiki/Vandals",
              },
              {
                "title": "Alans",
                "href": "/wiki/Alans",
              },
              {
                "title": "Hispania",
                "href": "/wiki/Hispania",
              },
            ],
          },
          ...
        ]
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  **Note:** The keywords' link (href) is relative to Wikipedia's domain. For example, `/wiki/Vandals`
  turns to be `https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Vandals`.

You may check the whole schema by visiting <http://localhost:9000/graphql/playground> after running
the server.

## Setup

#### Development

1. Run `yarn install`
2. Make sure that you have a local (or cloud-based) mongodb server up and running.
3. Export the mongodb env variables:

   - `MONGODB_HOST` and `MONGODB_PORT` (localhost and 27017 by default), or alternatively
   - `MONGODB_URI`

4. Seed built-in data to the database by running `yarn seed:dev`
5. Run `yarn dev`, which will [concurrently][concurrently] turn on the GraphQL API, the React App
   and watch for changes in all packages.

Other additional `yarn` scripts that might be helpful:

- `yarn lint`: runs eslint through the whole monorepo.
- `yarn build`: builds GraphQL schemas into TypeScript, and then builds TS code into its JS version.
- `yarn scrap:dev`: runs the Wikipedia scraper.
- `yarn seed:dev --force`: runs the seeds again, but this time wiping the database clean.
- `yarn console:dev`: opens a console to interact with the backend.
- `yarn db`: creates and runs a local mongodb container via Docker (requires starting Docker).

If you are going to start coding before running `yarn dev`, you must run `yarn build` so that all
internal packages are properly imported between themselves.

#### Running via Docker

```sh
# Start database and app server via docker-compose.
# You might have to wait for a moment while the backend seeds the database.
$ docker-compose up -d

# Stop docker containers:
$ docker-compose stop
```

Now the app should be available on port 9000.

[mit]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg
[prettier]: https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-prettier-ff69b4.svg?style=flat-square
[concurrently]: https://github.com/kimmobrunfeldt/concurrently

## Testing

```sh
# Run backend tests
$ yarn test:backend
```

Commit message:

test: add missing e2e tests via Cypress (#5)

README.md, after:

# On This Day

[![License: MIT][mit]](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![code style: prettier][prettier]](https://github.com/prettier/prettier)

## About

_On This Day_ is an app that serves and displays events, births and deaths that occurred during the
queried day of history, scraped from [Wikipedia](https://www.wikipedia.org/).

The app was built as a GraphQL monorepo via yarn workspaces using the following technologies:

1. [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
2. [Apollo Server](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/)
3. [Apollo Client](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/)
4. [React](https://facebook.github.io/react/)

Custom packages included in the monorepo are:

- `server`: Backend GraphQL logic
- `client`: Frontend GraphQL + React app
- `scraper`: Scraps seed data from Wikipedia
- `shared`: Shared code for all packages, such as validations
- `eslint-config`: Base eslint config for the whole project

## Queries

#### yearDate

Returns an array of historical episodes, filtered by day and month.

- **args:**

  - input:
    - month (Int!): An integer between 1 and 12.
    - day (Int!): An integer between 1 and 31.

- **Example usage:**

  ```graphql
  {
    yearDate(input: { day: 13, month: 10 }) {
      day
      month
      description
      events {
        id
        year
        description
        keywords {
          title
          href
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

- **Example response:**

  ```json
  {
    "data": {
      "yearDate": {
        "day": 13,
        "month": 10,
        "description": "October 13 is the 286th day of the year (287th in leap years) in the Gregorian calendar. 79 days remain until the end of the year.",
        "events": [
          {
            "id": "5e8e7aa06ae7679b783cff22",
            "year": 54,
            "description": "Roman emperor Claudius dies from poisoning under mysterious circumstances.",
            "keywords": [
              {
                "title": "AD 54",
                "href": "/wiki/AD_54",
              },
              {
                "title": "Claudius",
                "href": "/wiki/Claudius",
              },
            ],
          },
          {
            "id": "5e8e7aa06ae7679b783cff25",
            "year": 409,
            "description": "Vandals and Alans cross the Pyrenees and appear in Hispania.",
            "keywords": [
              {
                "title": "409",
                "href": "/wiki/409",
              },
              {
                "title": "Vandals",
                "href": "/wiki/Vandals",
              },
              {
                "title": "Alans",
                "href": "/wiki/Alans",
              },
              {
                "title": "Hispania",
                "href": "/wiki/Hispania",
              },
            ],
          },
          ...
        ]
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  **Note:** The keywords' link (href) is relative to Wikipedia's domain. For example, `/wiki/Vandals`
  turns to be `https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Vandals`.

You may check the whole schema by visiting <http://localhost:9000/graphql/playground> after running
the server.

## Setup

#### Development

1. Run `yarn install`
2. Make sure that you have a local (or cloud-based) mongodb server up and running.
3. Export the mongodb env variables:

   - `MONGODB_HOST` and `MONGODB_PORT` (localhost and 27017 by default), or alternatively
   - `MONGODB_URI`

4. Seed built-in data to the database by running `yarn seed:dev`
5. Run `yarn dev`, which will [concurrently][concurrently] turn on the GraphQL API, the React App
   and watch for changes in all packages.

Other additional `yarn` scripts that might be helpful:

- `yarn lint`: runs eslint through the whole monorepo.
- `yarn build`: builds GraphQL schemas into TypeScript, and then builds TS code into its JS version.
- `yarn scrap:dev`: runs the Wikipedia scraper.
- `yarn seed:dev --force`: runs the seeds again, but this time wiping the database clean.
- `yarn console:dev`: opens a console to interact with the backend.
- `yarn db`: creates and runs a local mongodb container via Docker (requires starting Docker).

If you are going to start coding before running `yarn dev`, you must run `yarn build` so that all
internal packages are properly imported between themselves.

#### Running via Docker

```sh
# Start database and app server via docker-compose.
# You might have to wait for a moment while the backend seeds the database.
$ docker-compose up -d

# Stop docker containers:
$ docker-compose stop
```

Now the app should be available on port 9000.

## Testing

Unit & integration backend tests were written with [Jest][jest].

E2E tests were written with [Cypress][cypress], and need the backend and frontend to be up and
running in order to work.

```sh
# Run backend tests
$ yarn test:backend

# Open cypress (interactive)
$ yarn test:e2e:open

# Run headless e2e tests (non-interactive alternative)
$ yarn test:e2e
```

[mit]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg
[prettier]: https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-prettier-ff69b4.svg?style=flat-square
[concurrently]: https://github.com/kimmobrunfeldt/concurrently
[jest]: https://jestjs.io/
[cypress]: https://www.cypress.io/
